docs/DEVELOPMENT_SETUP.md, before:

#Devlopment Setup

How to start as a developer. Brief description of what you would need to have installed and what dependencies you should have configured to successfully run and contribute to the project.

##Prerequisites

You will need to:

* have git to checkout this repo [how to install Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* have Java installed [how to install Java?](https://java.com/en/download/help/download_options.xml)

An essential part of the system is integration with a booking service that stores all the data about users, appointments etc. In order to be able to run this application without an integration to a real system, we created a dummy version of it, so this server application can be run without being dependent on the licence we have. The address of the stub is:
        
    The App:  http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/
    The Code: https://github.com/AusDTO/citizenship-appointment-backend-stub
    
##Essential environment variables

###The values to set

You will need a few environment variables set in order to run the application (the values are just sample values you can set it to):

    #Monitoring tests
    export MONITOR_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8083"
    export MONITOR_CLIENT_ID="11111111111" 
    export MONITOR_FAMILY_NAME="Potter"
    
    # STUB API ENDPOINTS
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_CUSTOMER="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_USER="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_CALENDAR="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_PROCESS="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_SERVICE="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_UNIT="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_APPOINTMENT_TYPE="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    
    # API_USERS
    export USER_USERNAME_1=“some_user”
    export USER_PASSWORD_1=“some_password”
    export USER_ID_1=“1”
    
    #SYSTEM_ESSENTIAL
    export SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD="whatever"
    export SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY="super secret key"
    export ANALYTICS_TRACKING_ID=""
    export SECURITY_ANONYMOUS_TOKEN_KEY="anonymousTokenKey"
    export SESSION_JWT_ENCRYPTION_KEY_BASE64="AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA="
    
###The why
    
The above environment variables are essential to run the application. 

MONITOR_BASE_URL, MONITOR_CLIENT_ID, MONITOR_FAMILY_NAME are storing the details of a sample user that can log in to the system as real clients would, they are used to run an e2e test checking the ability to book an appointment while integrated with the booking system.

SERVICE_ADDRESS_CUSTOMER, SERVICE_ADDRESS_USER, SERVICE_ADDRESS_CALENDAR, SERVICE_ADDRESS_PROCESS, SERVICE_ADDRESS_UNIT,SERVICE_ADDRESS_APPOINTMENT_TYPE and SERVICE_ADDRESS_SERVICE are the endpoints of the booking system we are integrating with to store the data about the appointments. 
    
USER_USERNAME_*x*, USER_PASSWORD_*x*, USER_ID_*x*, (where x should be a number, incremental from 1) is for managing the users that the system uses to obtain authentication with the API of the booking system.

SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD is for the monitoring endpoint that the system exposes to retrieve basic health information.

SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY, SESSION_JWT_ENCRYPTION_KEY_BASE64 and SECURITY_ANONYMOUS_TOKEN_KEY are needed for various security mechanisms we implemented.

ANALYTICS_TRACKING_ID is for the Google Analytics account we integrated with the system.


##Running the application

Once Java is installed, code checked out and variables set, go to the main folder of the project and execute

    ./go fullBuild

This will download any required dependencies and run all the tests. It should succeed if all is configured properly.

##Next steps

All the commands you can run can be found in the go script located in the root folder of this project. 

    ./go startApp

will start the application. Happy coding!

Commit message:

Small ammendments to development_setup

docs/DEVELOPMENT_SETUP.md, after:

#Devlopment Setup

How to start as a developer. Brief description of what you would need to have installed and what dependencies you should have configured to successfully run and contribute to the project.

##Prerequisites

You will need to:

* have git to checkout this repo ([how to install Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git))
* have Java 8 installed ([how to install Java?](https://java.com/en/download/help/download_options.xml))

An essential part of the system is integration with a booking service that stores all the data about users, appointments etc. In order to be able to run this application without an integration to a real system, we created a dummy version of it, so this server application can be run without being dependent on the licence we have. The address of the stub is:
        
    The App:  http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/
    The Code: https://github.com/AusDTO/citizenship-appointment-backend-stub
    
##Essential environment variables

###The values to set

You will need a few environment variables set in order to run the application (the values are just sample values you can set it to):

    #Monitoring tests
    export MONITOR_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8083"
    export MONITOR_CLIENT_ID="11111111111" 
    export MONITOR_FAMILY_NAME="Potter"
    
    # STUB API ENDPOINTS
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_CUSTOMER="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_USER="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_CALENDAR="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_PROCESS="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_SERVICE="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_UNIT="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    export SERVICE_ADDRESS_APPOINTMENT_TYPE="http://citizenship-appointment-stub.herokuapp.com/"
    
    # API_USERS
    export USER_USERNAME_1=“some_user”
    export USER_PASSWORD_1=“some_password”
    export USER_ID_1=“1”
    
    #SYSTEM_ESSENTIAL
    export SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD="whatever"
    export SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY="super secret key"
    export ANALYTICS_TRACKING_ID=""
    export SECURITY_ANONYMOUS_TOKEN_KEY="anonymousTokenKey"
    export SESSION_JWT_ENCRYPTION_KEY_BASE64="AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA="
    
###The why
    
The above environment variables are essential to run the application. 

MONITOR_BASE_URL, MONITOR_CLIENT_ID, MONITOR_FAMILY_NAME are storing the details of a sample user that can log in to the system as real clients would, they are used to run an e2e test checking the ability to book an appointment while integrated with the booking system.

SERVICE_ADDRESS_CUSTOMER, SERVICE_ADDRESS_USER, SERVICE_ADDRESS_CALENDAR, SERVICE_ADDRESS_PROCESS, SERVICE_ADDRESS_UNIT,SERVICE_ADDRESS_APPOINTMENT_TYPE and SERVICE_ADDRESS_SERVICE are the endpoints of the booking system we are integrating with to store the data about the appointments. 
    
USER_USERNAME_*x*, USER_PASSWORD_*x*, USER_ID_*x*, (where x should be a number, incremental from 1) is for managing the users that the system uses to obtain authentication with the API of the booking system.

SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD is for the monitoring endpoint that the system exposes to retrieve basic health information.

SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY, SESSION_JWT_ENCRYPTION_KEY_BASE64 and SECURITY_ANONYMOUS_TOKEN_KEY are needed for various security mechanisms we implemented.

ANALYTICS_TRACKING_ID is for the Google Analytics account we integrated with the system.


##Running the application

Once Java is installed, code checked out and variables set, go to the main folder of the project and execute

    ./go fullBuild

This will download any required dependencies and run all the tests. It should succeed if all is configured properly.

##Next steps

All the commands you can run can be found in the go script located in the root folder of this project. 

    ./go startApp

will start the application. Happy coding!

##Some useful info

###Codebase

We have split our codebase into packages based on the functionality it is responsible to, not based on the layers. So for example if you are looking for the code responsible for obtaining available dates, the *availabledates* package will be the place to go.

The client project is pulled as a dependency (see package.json) whenever the *./go fullBuild* is executed. The file structure of images, JavaScript and css is flattened and copied into the */resources/public* directory. The file structure of the Mustache templates is flattened and copied into */resources/templates* directory. Any changes that you make to those files will be overwritten as soon as you run or build the application with the files from the client based on the commit hash in *package.json*.

###Development process

Once you are done with all the changes in your code, make sure you have enough tests covering your functionality. Execute 

    ./go fullBuild
    
to run all the tests and check that none of the existing functionality was not broken. As a part of this, integrationTests are executed, along with end2end tests run by casper (all in */src/test* and */src/integration-test* folders). If the build passes, you are free to push the code.
